Cookie Policy
This cookie policy is effective as and from 30th June 2026
To review or change your cookie consent choices, or for a full list of all the cookies in use on the website, along with purpose descriptions and additional information, use the Cookie Settings or See Cookie List options below:

Cookie Settings

See Cookie List

Introduction
We use cookies and similar technologies to personalise content, target and report on ads, to provide social media features and to analyse our traffic. This cookie policy is intended to inform you about the cookies we use and why we use them. It also informs you how to change or restrict how cookies are used on your device. This policy should be read in conjunction with our Privacy Policy, which explains how we use personal information. We value your opinions. Should you have any questions or comments related to the way we use cookies please contact us at dataprotection@irishtimes.com.
What is a cookie?
A cookie is a small piece of data sent by a website’s server to the browser on your computer or mobile device. Cookies help us to recognise and remember your device when you visit our websites and enable us to retrieve among other things, your user settings and preferences.
Why do we use cookies?
We use cookies for a variety of legitimate business purposes including:
For the operation of our website and Services
To improve your user experience. By remembering your preferences and settings we can make it easier and faster to navigate through our website
To provide you with a more personalised experience, such as making content recommendations, personalising your visits and greeting you by name
To simplify any sign-in procedures
To log your use of our website and services so that we can understand which content you find useful or interesting.
To support our advertising services
To determine the effectiveness of promotional campaigns, email campaigns and advertising
To ensure content from our site and mobile applications is presented in the most effective manner for you and for your device.
To provide social media features such as liking and sharing our content and to facilitate registration using your social media account.

What type of cookies do we use and why do we use them?
We use different types of cookies to run our website and Services including:
Strictly necessary cookies
These cookies are necessary for the website to function and cannot be switched off in our systems. They are usually only set in response to actions made by you which amount to a request for services, such as setting your privacy preferences, logging in or filling in forms. You can set your browser to block or alert you about these cookies, but some parts of the site will not then work. These cookies do not store any personally identifiable information.
Paywall cookies: We use first-party cookies and similar technologies to support the operation of our subscription paywall. These technologies allow us to recognise returning users, analyse content interactions, and optimise paywall, registration and subscription offers. These cookies may process device and behavioural data to determine whether to show a paywall, registration prompt, or open access content. These cookies are not used for advertising or cross-site tracking. Session cookies are deleted when you close your browser. Persistent cookies expire after a defined period. If consent is withdrawn, these cookies will no longer be used and will expire in line with their lifecycle.
Functional cookies
These cookies enable the website to provide enhanced functionality and personalisation. They may be set by us or third party providers. We may embed video, audio, tweets and other content in our articles and pages. We do not control which cookies are set by third parties or how the cookie information is used. If you do not allow these cookies then some or all of these services may not function properly. Some third party functional cookies may track your browser across other sites and build up a profile of your interests. This may impact the content and messages you see on other sites you visit.
Performance cookies
Analytical cookies help us to understand how visitors gain access to or read our content and interact with our Services. We collect statistical information about our visitors, such as whether they have visited the site before and the pages they view. We use these cookies to determine the kind of content and services our visitors value most, which in turn helps us to improve our website and its content. By understanding which content you find useful or interesting, we can recommend more content that you might like, as well as continuing to produce the most valuable content to meet your needs. Analytical cookies are set by irishtimes.com and third parties, including Comscore and Google Analytics.
To opt out of being tracked by Google Analytics across all websites, please visit https://tools.google.com/dlpage/gaoptout. On this website you’ll find information about a browser plug-in that can be installed to prevent your data from being used by Google Analytics.
Targeting cookies
To help fund the content, products, and services we provide, third-party vendors, including Google, display advertising on our Services. Google Ad Manager is our primary ad-serving partner, and more information on can be found on Google’s Privacy & Terms site. These cookies may be set through our advertising partners.
Third-party vendors use cookies to:
Help show ads that are relevant to you based on inferred interests. This is often called online behavioural advertising (OBA)
Restrict the number of times you see the same ad (frequency capping)
Create a browsing profile that is used to deliver more relevant ads
Measure the effectiveness of the ads that are served
Detect fraudulent traffic

Any information which is transmitted to advertisers and advertising networks is non-personally identifiable but are based on uniquely identifying your browser and internet device If you do not allow these cookies you will experience less targeted ads. We do not have access to the information collected by third-party cookies nor do we control how they process this information.
For more information on online behavioural advertising, please visit http://www.youronlinechoices.com/ie/your-ad-choices. On this website you’ll find information about how behavioural advertising works, further information about cookies and the steps you can take to opt out of such targeting. By turning off ads personalisation, you will still see ads on our site, but they’ll be less targeted to you.
Social-media cookies
These cookies are set by a range of social media services that we have added to the site to enable you to share our content with your friends and networks. They are capable of tracking your browser across other sites and building up a profile of your interests. This may impact the content and messages you see on other websites you visit. If you do not allow these cookies you may not be able to use or see these sharing tools.
Managing your cookie preferences
Cookies are meant to improve your user experience, but some users prefer to set restrictions on the types of cookies that can be stored on their device.
To review or change your cookie consent choices, or for a full list of all the cookies in use on the website, including third party cookies, along with purpose descriptions, the duration of the cookie and additional information visit:

Cookie Settings

Alternatively, by modifying your browser preferences, you have the choice to accept all cookies, to accept different types of cookies or to be notified when a cookie is set. It is also possible to configure your browser from accepting cookies altogether by changing your browser’s cookie settings. The following links may be helpful.
Cookie settings in Chrome
Cookie settings in FirefoxCookie settings in Internet Explorer
Cookie settings in Safari web and iOS
Please visit your browsers help page for more information. It is important to note it may affect your ability to use our services if you choose to restrict or disable cookies.
Updates to this policy
We may update our cookie policy to reflect any changes in technology or data protection legislation. Any updates or changes that may affect how we use cookies or how you as a user can manage cookies will appear on this page. We will notify you by posting a notice on our websites and, where appropriate, sending you a notification.

MOST READ

1
Teenagers killed on M9 regarded as among most prolific and dangerous joyriders countrywide

2
‘Mum is in tears, she can’t talk’: Student who left school in second year gets 625 points in Leaving Cert

3
Who were the M9 crash teenagers?

4
Gardaí confiscated gun from Michael Healy-Rae after he fired it in TV documentary

5
‘She is something else’: Georgie Kelly’s dash to see partner Kate O’Connor win gold medal